# Build root filesystem and Linux kernel with using Petalinux 2020.2 for [TySOM-2A-7Z030](https://www.aldec.com/en/products/emulation/tysom_boards/zynq_7000_soc/tysom_2a_7z030--zynq-board) board

## Table of Content
- [Provided files](#provided_files)
- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Petalinux 2020.2 instruction](#petalinux_instruction)
	- [Known issues](#known_issues)
- [Update the hardware platform in the Petalinux project](#update_hardware)

## Provided files <a name="provided_files"/>
- TySOM-2A-7Z030_base.bsp

## Requirements <a name="requirements"/>

Hardware: 
- TySOM-2A-7Z030

Software:
- Petalinux 2020.2

## Petalinux 2020.2 instruction <a name="petalinux_instruction"/>
Run below steps to recreate a Linux kernel and a Petalinux filesystem.

1. Source a Petalinux configuration file
```
source <path>/Xilinx/PetaLinux/2020.2/settings.sh
```

2. Create a project with using the BSP.
```
petalinux-create -t project -s <path>/TySOM-2A-7Z030_base.bsp
```

3. Go to the project directory
```
cd ./TySOM-2A-7Z030
```

4. If any changes in the Linux kernel configuration are required then run the command:
```
petalinux-config -c kernel
```

5. If any changes in the root filesystem configuration are required then run the command:
```
petalinux-config -c rootfs
```

6. Build the project
```
petalinux-build
```

7. If the building process is successfully finished then created files should be placed at directory ./images/linux.
Find files Image and rootfs.cpio.gz.u-boot.

8. Generate the BOOT.BIN file
```
petalinux-package --boot --force --fpga --u-boot
```

9. Copy files to a micro SD card.
The micro SD card should contain the following set of files:
- BOOT.BIN (images/linux/BOOT.BIN)
- boot.scr (images/linux/boot.scr)
- system.dtb (images/linux/system.dtb)
- uImage (images/linux/uImage)
- rootfs.cpio.gz.u-boot (images/linux/rootfs.cpio.gz.u-boot)
- uEnv.txt (pre-built/linux/images/uEnv.txt; optional)

### Known issues: <a name="known_issues"/>
- none

## Update the hardware platform in the Petalinux project <a name="update_hardware"/>

If a user modified the reference Vivado design then it is possible to update a hardware platform for Petalinux project. When the PetaLinux project is created then update the hardware platform and rebuild the project. Follow below steps:

1. Export a hardware platform from Vivado design.

In Vivado 2020.2 tool: File -> Export -> Export Hardware -> Next -> Include bitstream -> Select a name and a directory -> Finish
A new XSA file will be created.

2. Copy a new XSA to the PetaLinux project directory

3. Load the new XSA to the project and configure autogeneration options in menu
```
petalinux-config --get-hw-description=./
```

4. Save and exit the configuration menu. Build the project
```
petalinux-build
```

5. If the new hardware platform is completely different than previous one then it may be needed to update the device tree structure. Without any changes an error can occur during the build process.

After a hardware platform update a device tree structure is autogenerated in the ./components/plnx_workspace/device-tree/device-tree/ directory.
User modifications should be placed in ./project-spec/meta-user/recipes-bsp/device-tree/files/system-user.dtsi. Add required changes and rebuild the project.
